# Introduction

At its core, you can think of the SafeW Bot API as software that provides JSON-encoded responses to your queries.

A bot, on the other hand, is essentially a routine, software or script that queries the API by means of an HTTPS request and waits for a response. There are several types of requests you can make, as well as many different objects that you can use and receive as responses.

Since **your browser** is capable of sending HTTPS requests, you can use it to quickly try out the API. After obtaining your token, try pasting this string into your browser:

```
https://api.safew.org/bot<YOUR_BOT_TOKEN>/getMe
```

In theory, you could interact with the API with **basic requests** like this, either via your browser or other tailor-made tools like cURL. While this can work for simple requests like the example above, it's not practical for larger applications and doesn't scale well.\\

**Obtain Your Bot Token**\
In this context, a **token** is a string that authenticates your bot (not your account) on the bot API. Each bot has a unique token which can also be revoked at any time via @BotFather.

Obtaining a token is as simple as contacting @BotFather, issuing the [<mark style="color:red;">`/newbot`</mark>](#user-content-fn-1)[^1] command and following the steps until you're given a new token. You can find a step-by-step guide here.

Your token will look something like this:

```
4839574812:AAFD39kkdpWt3ywyRZergyOLMaJhac60qc
```

# getMe

The Bot API is an HTTP-based interface created for developers keen on building bots for SafeW.To learn how to create and set up a bot, please consult our Introduction to Bots and Bot FAQ.

### getMe

#### Authorizing your bot

Each bot is given a unique authentication token when it is created. The token looks something like <mark style="color:red;">`123456:ABC-DEF1234ghIkl-zyx57W2v1u123ew11`</mark>, but we'll use simply **\<token>** in this document instead. You can learn about obtaining tokens and generating new ones in this document.

#### Making requests

All queries to the SafeW Bot API must be served over HTTPS and need to be presented in this form: `https://api.safew.org/bot<token>/METHOD_NAME`. Like this for example:

{% hint style="info" %}
<https://api.safew.org/bot123456:ABC-DEF1234ghIkl-zyx57W2v1u123ew11/getMe>
{% endhint %}

We support **GET** and **POST** HTTP methods. We support four ways of passing parameters in Bot API requests:

* URL query string
* application/x-www-form-urlencoded
* application/json (except for uploading files)
* multipart/form-data (use to upload files)

The response contains a JSON object, which always has a Boolean field 'ok' and may have an optional String field 'description' with a human-readable description of the result. If 'ok' equals *True*, the request was successful and the result of the query can be found in the 'result' field. In case of an unsuccessful request, 'ok' equals false and the error is explained in the 'description'. An Integer 'error\_code' field is also returned, but its contents are subject to change in the future. Some errors may also have an optional field 'parameters' of the type ResponseParameters, which can help to automatically handle the error.

* All methods in the Bot API are case-insensitive.
* All queries must be made using UTF-8.

# getUpdates

Use this method to receive incoming updates using long polling (wiki). Returns an Array of Update objects.

<table data-full-width="false"><thead><tr><th width="128">Parameter</th><th width="92">Type</th><th width="128">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>offset</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Identifier of the first update to be returned. Must be greater by one than the highest among the identifiers of previously received updates. By default, updates starting with the earliest unconfirmed update are returned. An update is considered confirmed as soon as getUpdates is called with an offset higher than its update_id. The negative offset can be specified to retrieve updates starting from -offset update from the end of the updates queue. All previous updates will be forgotten.</td></tr><tr><td>limit</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Limits the number of updates to be retrieved. Values between 1-100 are accepted. Defaults to 100.</td></tr><tr><td>allowed_updates</td><td>Array of String</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of the update types you want your bot to receive. For example, specify ["message", "edited_channel_post", "callback_query"] to only receive updates of these types. See Update for a complete list of available update types. Specify an empty list to receive all update types except chat_member, message_reaction, and message_reaction_count (default). If not specified, the previous setting will be used.Please note that this parameter doesn't affect updates created before the call to the getUpdates, so unwanted updates may be received for a short period of time.</td></tr></tbody></table>

{% hint style="success" %}
Notes

1\. This method will not work if an outgoing webhook is set up.2. In order to avoid getting duplicate updates, recalculate offset after each server response.
{% endhint %}

# sendMessage

Use this method to send text messages. On success, the sent Message is returned.

<table><thead><tr><th width="127">Parameter</th><th width="94">Type</th><th width="97">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message will be sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format @channelusername)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>text</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Text of the message to be sent, 1-4096 characters after entities parsing</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the message text. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in message text, which can be specified instead of parse_mode</td></tr><tr><td>link_preview_options</td><td>LinkPreviewOptions</td><td>Optional</td><td>Link preview generation options for the message</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass True to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring broadcasting limits for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>message_effect_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the message effect to be added to the message; for private chats only</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardRemove or ForceReply</td><td>Optional</td><td>Additional interface options. A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard, custom reply keyboard, instructions to remove a reply keyboard or to force a reply from the user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# sendPhoto

Use this method to send photos. On success, the sent Message is returned.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message will be sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>photo</td><td>InputFile or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Photo to send. Pass a file_id as String to send a photo that exists on the Telegram servers (recommended), pass an HTTP URL as a String for Telegram to get a photo from the Internet, or upload a new photo using multipart/form-data. The photo must be at most 10 MB in size. The photo's width and height must not exceed 10000 in total. Width and height ratio must be at most 20.</td></tr><tr><td>caption</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Photo caption (may also be used when resending photos by <em>file_id</em>), 0-1024 characters after entities parsing</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the photo caption. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>caption_entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in the caption, which can be specified instead of <em>parse_mode</em></td></tr><tr><td>show_caption_above_media</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em>, if the caption must be shown above the message media</td></tr><tr><td>has_spoiler</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the photo needs to be covered with a spoiler animation</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring broadcasting limits for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>message_effect_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the message effect to be added to the message; for private chats only</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardRemove or ForceReply</td><td>Optional</td><td>Additional interface options. A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard, custom reply keyboard, instructions to remove a reply keyboard or to force a reply from the user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# sendVideo

Use this method to send video files, Safew clients support MPEG4 videos (other formats may be sent as Document). On success, the sent Message is returned. Bots can currently send video files of up to 50 MB in size, this limit may be changed in the future.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message will be sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>video</td><td>InputFile or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Video to send. Pass a file_id as String to send a video that exists on the Telegram servers (recommended), pass an HTTP URL as a String for Telegram to get a video from the Internet, or upload a new video using multipart/form-data.</td></tr><tr><td>duration</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Duration of sent video in seconds</td></tr><tr><td>width</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Video width</td></tr><tr><td>height</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Video height</td></tr><tr><td>thumbnail</td><td>InputFile or String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Thumbnail of the file sent; can be ignored if thumbnail generation for the file is supported server-side. The thumbnail should be in JPEG format and less than 200 kB in size. A thumbnail's width and height should not exceed 320. Ignored if the file is not uploaded using multipart/form-data. Thumbnails can't be reused and can be only uploaded as a new file, so you can pass “attach://&#x3C;file_attach_name>” if the thumbnail was uploaded using multipart/form-data under &#x3C;file_attach_name>.</td></tr><tr><td>caption</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Video caption (may also be used when resending videos by file_id), 0-1024 characters after entities parsing</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the video caption. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>caption_entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in the caption, which can be specified instead of parse_mode</td></tr><tr><td>show_caption_above_media</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass True, if the caption must be shown above the message media</td></tr><tr><td>has_spoiler</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass True if the video needs to be covered with a spoiler animation</td></tr><tr><td>supports_streaming</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass True if the uploaded video is suitable for streaming</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass True to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring broadcasting limits for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>message_effect_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the message effect to be added to the message; for private chats only</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardRemove or ForceReply</td><td>Optional</td><td>Additional interface options. A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard, custom reply keyboard, instructions to remove a reply keyboard or to force a reply from the user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# sendDocument

Use this method to send general files. On success, the sent Message is returned. Bots can currently send files of any type of up to 50 MB in size, this limit may be changed in the future.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message will be sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>document</td><td>InputFile or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>File to send. Pass a file_id as String to send a file that exists on the Telegram servers (recommended), pass an HTTP URL as a String for Telegram to get a file from the Internet, or upload a new one using multipart/form-data.</td></tr><tr><td>thumbnail</td><td>InputFile or String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Thumbnail of the file sent; can be ignored if thumbnail generation for the file is supported server-side. The thumbnail should be in JPEG format and less than 200 kB in size. A thumbnail's width and height should not exceed 320. Ignored if the file is not uploaded using multipart/form-data. Thumbnails can't be reused and can be only uploaded as a new file, so you can pass “attach://&#x3C;file_attach_name>” if the thumbnail was uploaded using multipart/form-data under &#x3C;file_attach_name>.</td></tr><tr><td>caption</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Document caption (may also be used when resending documents by file_id), 0-1024 characters after entities parsing</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the document caption. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>caption_entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in the caption, which can be specified instead of parse_mode</td></tr><tr><td>disable_content_type_detection</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Disables automatic server-side content type detection for files uploaded using multipart/form-data</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass True to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring broadcasting limits for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>message_effect_id</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the message effect to be added to the message; for private chats only</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardRemove or ForceReply</td><td>Optional</td><td>Additional interface options. A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard, custom reply keyboard, instructions to remove a reply keyboard or to force a reply from the user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# forwardMessage

Use this method to forward messages of any kind. Service messages and messages with protected content can't be forwarded. On success, the sent Message is returned.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>from_chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the chat where the original message was sent (or channel username in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the forwarded message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>message_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Message identifier in the chat specified in from_chat_id</td></tr></tbody></table>

# editMessageText

Use this method to edit text and game messages. On success, if the edited message is not an inline message, the edited Message is returned, otherwise True is returned. Note that business messages that were not sent by the bot and do not contain an inline keyboard can only be edited within 48 hours from the time they were sent.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message to be edited was sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Required if inline_message_id is not specified. Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Required if inline_message_id is not specified. Identifier of the message to edit</td></tr><tr><td>inline_message_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Required if chat_id and message_id are not specified. Identifier of the inline message</td></tr><tr><td>text</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>New text of the message, 1-4096 characters after entities parsing</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the message text. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in message text, which can be specified instead of parse_mode</td></tr><tr><td>link_preview_options</td><td>LinkPreviewOptions</td><td>Optional</td><td>Link preview generation options for the message</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# deleteMessage

Use this method to delete a message, including service messages, with the following limitations:

\- A message can only be deleted if it was sent less than 48 hours ago.

\- Service messages about a supergroup, channel, or forum topic creation can't be deleted.

\- A dice message in a private chat can only be deleted if it was sent more than 24 hours ago.

\- Bots can delete outgoing messages in private chats, groups, and supergroups.

\- Bots can delete incoming messages in private chats.

\- Bots granted can\_post\_messages permissions can delete outgoing messages in channels.

\- If the bot is an administrator of a group, it can delete any message there.

\- If the bot has can\_delete\_messages permission in a supergroup or a channel, it can delete any message there.

Returns True on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Identifier of the message to delete</td></tr></tbody></table>

# getChat

Use this method to get up-to-date information about the chat. Returns a ChatFullInfo object on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup or channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr></tbody></table>

# leaveChat

Use this method for your bot to leave a group, supergroup or channel. Returns True on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup or channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr></tbody></table>

# getChatMemberCount

Use this method to get the number of members in a chat. Returns Int on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup or channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr></tbody></table>

# banChatMember

Use this method to ban a user in a group, a supergroup or a channel. In the case of supergroups and channels, the user will not be able to return to the chat on their own using invite links, etc., unless unbanned first. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the appropriate administrator rights. Returns True on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="159">Parameter</th><th width="109">Type</th><th width="110">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target group or username of the target supergroup or channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;">@channelusername</mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>user_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target user</td></tr><tr><td>until_date</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Date when the user will be unbanned; Unix time. If user is banned for more than 366 days or less than 30 seconds from the current time they are considered to be banned forever. Applied for supergroups and channels only.</td></tr><tr><td>revoke_messages</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass True to delete all messages from the chat for the user that is being removed. If False, the user will be able to see messages in the group that were sent before the user was removed. Always True for supergroups and channels.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# sendVoice

Use this method to send audio files, if you want Telegram clients to display the file as a playable voice message. For this to work, your audio must be in an .OGG file encoded with OPUS, or in .MP3 format, or in .M4A format (other formats may be sent as Audio or Document). On success, the sent Message is returned. Bots can currently send voice messages of up to 50 MB in size, this limit may be changed in the future.

<table><thead><tr><th width="194">Parameter</th><th>Type</th><th width="106">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message will be sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;"><code>@channelusername</code></mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>voice</td><td>InputFile or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Audio file to send. Pass a file_id as String to send a file that exists on the Telegram servers (recommended), pass an HTTP URL as a String for Telegram to get a file from the Internet, or upload a new one using multipart/form-data. </td></tr><tr><td>caption</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Voice message caption, 0-1024 characters after entities parsing</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the voice message caption. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>caption_entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in the caption, which can be specified instead of <em>parse_mode</em></td></tr><tr><td>duration</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Duration of the voice message in seconds</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring broadcasting limits for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>message_effect_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the message effect to be added to the message; for private chats only</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardRemove or ForceReply</td><td>Optional</td><td>Additional interface options. A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard, custom reply keyboard, instructions to remove a reply keyboard or to force a reply from the user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# sendMediaGroup

Use this method to send a group of photos, videos, documents or audios as an album. Documents and audio files can be only grouped in an album with messages of the same type. On success, an array of Messages that were sent is returned.

<table><thead><tr><th width="194">Parameter</th><th>Type</th><th width="106">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message will be sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <mark style="color:red;"><code>@channelusername</code></mark>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>media</td><td>Array of InputMediaAudio, InputMediaDocument, InputMediaPhoto and InputMediaVideo</td><td>Yes</td><td>A JSON-serialized array describing messages to be sent, must include 2-10 items</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends messages <a href="https://telegram.org/blog/channels-2-0#silent-messages">silently</a>. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent messages from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring <a href="https://core.telegram.org/bots/faq#how-can-i-message-all-of-my-bot-39s-subscribers-at-once">broadcasting limits</a> for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>message_effect_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the message effect to be added to the message; for private chats only</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr></tbody></table>

# sendAudio

Use this method to send audio files, if you want Telegram clients to display them in the music player. Your audio must be in the .MP3 or .M4A format. On success, the sent Message is returned. Bots can currently send audio files of up to 50 MB in size, this limit may be changed in the future.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="160">Type</th><th width="115">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message will be sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>audio</td><td><a href="https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#inputfile">InputFile</a> or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Audio file to send. Pass a file_id as String to send an audio file that exists on the Telegram servers (recommended), pass an HTTP URL as a String for Telegram to get an audio file from the Internet, or upload a new one using multipart/form-data. </td></tr><tr><td>caption</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Audio caption, 0-1024 characters after entities parsing</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the audio caption. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>caption_entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in the caption, which can be specified instead of <em>parse_mode</em></td></tr><tr><td>duration</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Duration of the audio in seconds</td></tr><tr><td>performer</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Performer</td></tr><tr><td>title</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Track name</td></tr><tr><td>thumbnail</td><td>InputFile or String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Thumbnail of the file sent; can be ignored if thumbnail generation for the file is supported server-side. The thumbnail should be in JPEG format and less than 200 kB in size. A thumbnail's width and height should not exceed 320. Ignored if the file is not uploaded using multipart/form-data. Thumbnails can't be reused and can be only uploaded as a new file, so you can pass “attach://&#x3C;file_attach_name>” if the thumbnail was uploaded using multipart/form-data under &#x3C;file_attach_name>. </td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring broadcasting limits for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>message_effect_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the message effect to be added to the message; for private chats only</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardRemove or ForceReply</td><td>Optional</td><td>Additional interface options. A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard, custom reply keyboard, instructions to remove a reply keyboard or to force a reply from the user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# setWebhook

Use this method to specify a URL and receive incoming updates via an outgoing webhook. Whenever there is an update for the bot, we will send an HTTPS POST request to the specified URL, containing a JSON-serialized Update. In case of an unsuccessful request (a request with response HTTP status code different from `2XY`), we will repeat the request and give up after a reasonable amount of attempts. Returns *True* on success.

If you'd like to make sure that the webhook was set by you, you can specify secret data in the parameter *secret\_token*. If specified, the request will contain a header “X-Telegram-Bot-Api-Secret-Token” with the secret token as content.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="160">Type</th><th width="115">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>url</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>HTTPS URL to send updates to. Use an empty string to remove webhook integration</td></tr><tr><td>certificate</td><td>InputFile</td><td>Optional</td><td>Upload your public key certificate so that the root certificate in use can be checked. See our self-signed guide for details.</td></tr><tr><td>ip_address</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>The fixed IP address which will be used to send webhook requests instead of the IP address resolved through DNS</td></tr><tr><td>max_connections</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>The maximum allowed number of simultaneous HTTPS connections to the webhook for update delivery, 1-100. Defaults to <em>40</em>. Use lower values to limit the load on your bot's server, and higher values to increase your bot's throughput.</td></tr><tr><td>allowed_updates</td><td>Array of String</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of the update types you want your bot to receive. For example, specify <code>["message", "edited_channel_post", "callback_query"]</code> to only receive updates of these types. See Update for a complete list of available update types. Specify an empty list to receive all update types except <em>chat_member</em>, <em>message_reaction</em>, and <em>message_reaction_count</em> (default). If not specified, the previous setting will be used.<br>Please note that this parameter doesn't affect updates created before the call to the setWebhook, so unwanted updates may be received for a short period of time.</td></tr><tr><td>drop_pending_updates</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to drop all pending updates</td></tr><tr><td>secret_token</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>A secret token to be sent in a header “X-Telegram-Bot-Api-Secret-Token” in every webhook request, 1-256 characters. Only characters <code>A-Z</code>, <code>a-z</code>, <code>0-9</code>, <code>_</code> and <code>-</code> are allowed. The header is useful to ensure that the request comes from a webhook set by you.</td></tr></tbody></table>

> **Notes**\
> **1.** You will not be able to receive updates using getUpdates for as long as an outgoing webhook is set up.\
> **2.** To use a self-signed certificate, you need to upload your public key certificate using *certificate* parameter. Please upload as InputFile, sending a String will not work.\
> **3.** Ports currently supported *for webhooks*: **443, 80, 88, 8443**.
>
> If you're having any trouble setting up webhooks, please check out this amazing guide to webhooks.

\\

# deleteWebhook

Use this method to remove webhook integration if you decide to switch back to getUpdates. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="160">Type</th><th width="115">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>drop_pending_updates</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to drop all pending updates</td></tr></tbody></table>

# getWebhookInfo

Use this method to get current webhook status. Requires no parameters. On success, returns a WebhookInfo object. If the bot is using getUpdates, will return an object with the *url* field empty.

**WebhookInfo**

Describes the current status of a webhook.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="160">Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>url</td><td>String</td><td>Webhook URL, may be empty if webhook is not set up</td></tr><tr><td>has_custom_certificate</td><td>Boolean</td><td><em>True</em>, if a custom certificate was provided for webhook certificate checks</td></tr><tr><td>pending_update_count</td><td>Integer</td><td>Number of updates awaiting delivery</td></tr><tr><td>ip_address</td><td>String</td><td><em>Optional</em>. Currently used webhook IP address</td></tr><tr><td>last_error_date</td><td>Integer</td><td><em>Optional</em>. Unix time for the most recent error that happened when trying to deliver an update via webhook</td></tr><tr><td>last_error_message</td><td>String</td><td><em>Optional</em>. Error message in human-readable format for the most recent error that happened when trying to deliver an update via webhook</td></tr><tr><td>last_synchronization_error_date</td><td>Integer</td><td><em>Optional</em>. Unix time of the most recent error that happened when trying to synchronize available updates with Telegram datacenters</td></tr><tr><td>max_connections</td><td>Integer</td><td><em>Optional</em>. The maximum allowed number of simultaneous HTTPS connections to the webhook for update delivery</td></tr><tr><td>allowed_updates</td><td>Array of String</td><td><em>Optional</em>. A list of update types the bot is subscribed to. Defaults to all update types except <em>chat_member</em></td></tr></tbody></table>

# deleteMessages

Use this method to delete multiple messages simultaneously. If some of the specified messages can't be found, they are skipped. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_ids</td><td>Array of Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of 1-100 identifiers of messages to delete. See deleteMessage for limitations on which messages can be deleted</td></tr></tbody></table>

# editMessageReplyMarkup

Use this method to edit only the reply markup of messages. On success, if the edited message is not an inline message, the edited Message is returned, otherwise *True* is returned. Note that business messages that were not sent by the bot and do not contain an inline keyboard can only be edited within **48 hours** from the time they were sent.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>business_connection_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier of the business connection on behalf of which the message to be edited was sent</td></tr><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Required if <em>inline_message_id</em> is not specified. Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Required if <em>inline_message_id</em> is not specified. Identifier of the message to edit</td></tr><tr><td>inline_message_id</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Required if <em>chat_id</em> and <em>message_id</em> are not specified. Identifier of the inline message</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# copyMessage

Use this method to copy messages of any kind. Service messages, paid media messages, giveaway messages, giveaway winners messages, and invoice messages can't be copied. A quiz poll can be copied only if the value of the field *correct\_option\_id* is known to the bot. The method is analogous to the method forwardMessage, but the copied message doesn't have a link to the original message. Returns the MessageId of the sent message on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_thread_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Unique identifier for the target message thread (topic) of the forum; for forum supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>from_chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the chat where the original message was sent (or channel username in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the chat where the original message was sent (or channel username in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>message_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Message identifier in the chat specified in <em>from_chat_id</em></td></tr><tr><td>video_start_timestamp</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>New start timestamp for the copied video in the message</td></tr><tr><td>caption</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>New caption for media, 0-1024 characters after entities parsing. If not specified, the original caption is kept</td></tr><tr><td>parse_mode</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Mode for parsing entities in the new caption. See formatting options for more details.</td></tr><tr><td>caption_entities</td><td>Array of MessageEntity</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of special entities that appear in the new caption, which can be specified instead of <em>parse_mode</em></td></tr><tr><td>show_caption_above_media</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em>, if the caption must be shown above the message media. Ignored if a new caption isn't specified.</td></tr><tr><td>disable_notification</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Sends the message silently. Users will receive a notification with no sound.</td></tr><tr><td>protect_content</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Protects the contents of the sent message from forwarding and saving</td></tr><tr><td>allow_paid_broadcast</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to allow up to 1000 messages per second, ignoring broadcasting limits for a fee of 0.1 Telegram Stars per message. The relevant Stars will be withdrawn from the bot's balance</td></tr><tr><td>reply_parameters</td><td>ReplyParameters</td><td>Optional</td><td>Description of the message to reply to</td></tr><tr><td>reply_markup</td><td>InlineKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardMarkup or ReplyKeyboardRemove or ForceReply</td><td>Optional</td><td>Additional interface options. A JSON-serialized object for an inline keyboard, custom reply keyboard, instructions to remove a reply keyboard or to force a reply from the user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# promoteChatMember

Use this method to promote or demote a user in a supergroup or a channel. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the appropriate administrator rights. Pass *False* for all boolean parameters to demote a user. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>user_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target user</td></tr><tr><td>is_anonymous</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator's presence in the chat is hidden</td></tr><tr><td>can_manage_chat</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can access the chat event log, get boost list, see hidden supergroup and channel members, report spam messages and ignore slow mode. Implied by any other administrator privilege.</td></tr><tr><td>can_delete_messages</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can delete messages of other users</td></tr><tr><td>can_manage_video_chats</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can manage video chats</td></tr><tr><td>can_restrict_members</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can restrict, ban or unban chat members, or access supergroup statistics</td></tr><tr><td>can_promote_members</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can add new administrators with a subset of their own privileges or demote administrators that they have promoted, directly or indirectly (promoted by administrators that were appointed by him)</td></tr><tr><td>can_change_info</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can change chat title, photo and other settings</td></tr><tr><td>can_invite_users</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can invite new users to the chat</td></tr><tr><td>can_post_stories</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can post stories to the chat</td></tr><tr><td>can_edit_stories</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can edit stories posted by other users, post stories to the chat page, pin chat stories, and access the chat's story archive</td></tr><tr><td>can_delete_stories</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can delete stories posted by other users</td></tr><tr><td>can_post_messages</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can post messages in the channel, or access channel statistics; for channels only</td></tr><tr><td>can_edit_messages</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can edit messages of other users and can pin messages; for channels only</td></tr><tr><td>can_pin_messages</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the administrator can pin messages; for supergroups only</td></tr><tr><td>can_manage_topics</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if the user is allowed to create, rename, close, and reopen forum topics; for supergroups only</td></tr></tbody></table>

# setChatPermissions

Use this method to set default chat permissions for all members. The bot must be an administrator in the group or a supergroup for this to work and must have the *can\_restrict\_members* administrator rights. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup (in the format <code>@supergroupusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>permissions</td><td>ChatPermissions</td><td>Yes</td><td>A JSON-serialized object for new default chat permissions</td></tr><tr><td>use_independent_chat_permissions</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if chat permissions are set independently. Otherwise, the <em>can_send_other_messages</em> and <em>can_add_web_page_previews</em> permissions will imply the <em>can_send_messages</em>, <em>can_send_audios</em>, <em>can_send_documents</em>, <em>can_send_photos</em>, <em>can_send_videos</em>, <em>can_send_video_notes</em>, and <em>can_send_voice_notes</em> permissions; the <em>can_send_polls</em> permission will imply the <em>can_send_messages</em> permission.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# restrictChatMember

Use this method to restrict a user in a supergroup. The bot must be an administrator in the supergroup for this to work and must have the appropriate administrator rights. Pass *True* for all permissions to lift restrictions from a user. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup (in the format <code>@supergroupusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>user_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target user</td></tr><tr><td>permissions</td><td>ChatPermissions</td><td>Yes</td><td>A JSON-serialized object for new user permissions</td></tr><tr><td>use_independent_chat_permissions</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> if chat permissions are set independently. Otherwise, the <em>can_send_other_messages</em> and <em>can_add_web_page_previews</em> permissions will imply the <em>can_send_messages</em>, <em>can_send_audios</em>, <em>can_send_documents</em>, <em>can_send_photos</em>, <em>can_send_videos</em>, <em>can_send_video_notes</em>, and <em>can_send_voice_notes</em> permissions; the <em>can_send_polls</em> permission will imply the <em>can_send_messages</em> permission.</td></tr><tr><td>until_date</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Date when restrictions will be lifted for the user; Unix time. If user is restricted for more than 366 days or less than 30 seconds from the current time, they are considered to be restricted forever</td></tr></tbody></table>

# setMyDefaultAdministratorRights

Use this method to change the default administrator rights requested by the bot when it's added as an administrator to groups or channels. These rights will be suggested to users, but they are free to modify the list before adding the bot. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>rights</td><td>ChatAdministratorRights</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized object describing new default administrator rights. If not specified, the default administrator rights will be cleared.</td></tr><tr><td>for_channels</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>Pass <em>True</em> to change the default administrator rights of the bot in channels. Otherwise, the default administrator rights of the bot for groups and supergroups will be changed.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# setChatAdministratorCustomTitle

Use this method to set a custom title for an administrator in a supergroup promoted by the bot. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup (in the format <code>@supergroupusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>user_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target user</td></tr><tr><td>custom_title</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>New custom title for the administrator; 0-16 characters, emoji are not allowed</td></tr></tbody></table>

# getChatMember

Use this method to get information about a member of a chat. The method is only guaranteed to work for other users if the bot is an administrator in the chat. Returns a ChatMember object on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup or channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>user_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# setChatTitle

Use this method to change the title of a chat. Titles can't be changed for private chats. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the appropriate administrator rights. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>title</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>New chat title, 1-128 characters</td></tr></tbody></table>

# getChatAdministrators

Use this method to get a list of administrators in a chat, which aren't bots. Returns an Array of ChatMember objects.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target supergroup or channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr></tbody></table>

# getMyCommands

Use this method to get the current list of the bot's commands for the given scope and user language. Returns an Array of BotCommand objects. If commands aren't set, an empty list is returned.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>scope</td><td>BotCommandScope</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized object, describing scope of users. Defaults to BotCommandScopeDefault.</td></tr><tr><td>language_code</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>A two-letter ISO 639-1 language code or an empty string</td></tr></tbody></table>

# setMyCommands

Use this method to change the list of the bot's commands. See this manual for more details about bot commands. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>commands</td><td>Array of BotCommand</td><td>Yes</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of bot commands to be set as the list of the bot's commands. At most 100 commands can be specified.</td></tr><tr><td>scope</td><td>BotCommandScope</td><td>Optional</td><td>A JSON-serialized object, describing scope of users for which the commands are relevant. Defaults to BotCommandScopeDefault.</td></tr><tr><td>language_code</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>A two-letter ISO 639-1 language code. If empty, commands will be applied to all users from the given scope, for whose language there are no dedicated commands</td></tr></tbody></table>

# createChatInviteLink

Use this method to create an additional invite link for a chat. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the appropriate administrator rights. The link can be revoked using the method revokeChatInviteLink. Returns the new invite link as ChatInviteLink object.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>A JSON-serialized list of bot commands to be set as the list of the bot's commands. At most 100 commands can be specified.</td></tr><tr><td>name</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Invite link name; 0-32 characters</td></tr><tr><td>expire_date</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Point in time (Unix timestamp) when the link will expire</td></tr><tr><td>member_limit</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>The maximum number of users that can be members of the chat simultaneously after joining the chat via this invite link; 1-99999</td></tr><tr><td>creates_join_request</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td><em>True</em>, if users joining the chat via the link need to be approved by chat administrators. If <em>True</em>, <em>member_limit</em> can't be specified</td></tr></tbody></table>

# editChatInviteLink

Use this method to edit a non-primary invite link created by the bot. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the appropriate administrator rights. Returns the edited invite link as a ChatInviteLink object.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>invite_link</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>The invite link to edit</td></tr><tr><td>name</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Invite link name; 0-32 characters</td></tr><tr><td>expire_date</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>Point in time (Unix timestamp) when the link will expire</td></tr><tr><td>member_limit</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>The maximum number of users that can be members of the chat simultaneously after joining the chat via this invite link; 1-99999</td></tr><tr><td>creates_join_request</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td><em>True</em>, if users joining the chat via the link need to be approved by chat administrators. If <em>True</em>, <em>member_limit</em> can't be specified</td></tr></tbody></table>

# revokeChatInviteLink

Use this method to revoke an invite link created by the bot. If the primary link is revoked, a new link is automatically generated. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the appropriate administrator rights. Returns the revoked invite link as ChatInviteLink object.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>invite_link</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>The invite link to revoke</td></tr></tbody></table>

# approveChatJoinRequest

Use this method to approve a chat join request. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the *can\_invite\_users* administrator right. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>user_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# declineChatJoinRequest

Use this method to decline a chat join request. The bot must be an administrator in the chat for this to work and must have the *can\_invite\_users* administrator right. Returns *True* on success.

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>chat_id</td><td>Integer or String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the target chat or username of the target channel (in the format <code>@channelusername</code>)</td></tr><tr><td>user_id</td><td>Integer</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier of the target user</td></tr></tbody></table>

# answerCallbackQuery

Use this method to send answers to callback queries sent from [inline keyboards](https://core.telegram.org/bots/features#inline-keyboards). The answer will be displayed to the user as a notification at the top of the chat screen or as an alert. On success, *True* is returned.

{% hint style="info" %}
Alternatively, the user can be redirected to the specified Game URL. For this option to work, you must first create a game for your bot via [@BotFather](https://t.me/botfather) and accept the terms. Otherwise, you may use links like `t.me/your_bot?start=XXXX` that open your bot with a parameter.
{% endhint %}

<table><thead><tr><th width="166">Parameter</th><th width="104.8203125">Type</th><th width="101.6796875">Required</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>callback_query_id</td><td>String</td><td>Yes</td><td>Unique identifier for the query to be answered</td></tr><tr><td>text</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td>Text of the notification. If not specified, nothing will be shown to the user, 0-200 characters</td></tr><tr><td>show_alert</td><td>Boolean</td><td>Optional</td><td>If <em>True</em>, an alert will be shown by the client instead of a notification at the top of the chat screen. Defaults to <em>false</em>.</td></tr><tr><td>url</td><td>String</td><td>Optional</td><td><p>URL that will be opened by the user's client. If you have created a Game and accepted the conditions via @BotFather, specify the URL that opens your game - note that this will only work if the query comes from a <em>callback_game</em> button.</p><p>Otherwise, you may use links like <code>t.me/your_bot?start=XXXX</code> that open your bot with a parameter.</p></td></tr><tr><td>cache_time</td><td>Integer</td><td>Optional</td><td>The maximum amount of time in seconds that the result of the callback query may be cached client-side. Telegram apps will support caching starting in version 3.14. Defaults to 0.</td></tr></tbody></table>